# Javascript Fundamentals

## What is Javascript?

Javascript is an opinionated language that is used to build web applications, it is a prototype-based, 
object-oriented programming language. At it's core, when working with JS, we are working with objects.

Javascript frameworks allow us to build complex, Javascript based front-end apps

## ECMAScript
ECMAScript is the browser specification of the Javascript Language.

## Javascript in an HTML doc
There is a reason it's best practice to put `<script></script>` or inline Javascript at the bottom of an HTML doc. 
The browser processes it from top to bottom, and when it hits JS everything stops. It reads the JS, renders it, then 
continues rendering the page.

HOWEVER

Setting your JS in the footer of the page is an anti-pattern. It is best to put your JS scripts in the head of the page, and make sure to use async/defer on them.

## Async and defer JS loading
### Default Behavior
The default behavior is that the browser will stop rendering in order to execute the JS.

### Async
The browser will download the JS in parallel to rendering the HTML, once downloaded, the html will stop rendering, the JS is executed, then HTML will continue rendering.

### Defer
The browser will download the JS in parallel to the HTML rendering, then it will wait until the HTML is finished rendering before executing the downloaded JS.

## Javascript Modules
Allow us to separate our JS in modules and imported when needed.

When setting the script import type as module, it is automatically deferred.
``` Javascript
<script type="module" src="blah"></script>

```


## Objects

Each object is a unique instance of an object prototype

Can contains other objects

### Methods

Methods are property-changing features inside objects.

When the properties are changed, they do not change other objects properties

Instantiating an object:
```javascript
const myObject = {} //I'm an object \( ﾟヮﾟ)/
```

The structure of an object:
```javascript
const backpack = {
  name: 'my backpack', //Can contain strings
  volume: 15, //Can contain numbers
  color: 'white',
  strapLength: { //Properties can contain sub-objects with their own properties
    left: 12,
    right: 20
  },
  lidOpen: false, //Can contain booleans
  toggleLid: function (lidStatus) { //They can even contain methods which are properties containing functions
    this.lidOpen = lidStatus
  }
}
```
